src/content/case-studies/en/lexroom.md, before:

---
slug: lexroom
---

## The Challenge

Lexroom.ai had an ambitious goal: harness the power of AI to transform legal research. Their platform would help legal professionals find relevant sources and draft opinions faster than ever before. But building AI-powered legal tools comes with unique challenges.

The team faced several hurdles:
- **Technical complexity** - AI/ML systems require specialized expertise
- **Data sensitivity** - legal documents demand robust security
- **Resource constraints** - early-stage startup with limited funding
- **Team building** - finding engineers comfortable with AI workloads

## Our Approach

We developed a comprehensive strategy that addressed both immediate needs and long-term scalability:

### Strategic Roadmap Development

Before writing a single line of code, we mapped out a detailed product development roadmap. This planning phase was crucial for identifying the right technical priorities and avoiding costly pivots later.

### Lean Team Assembly

With limited resources, we couldn't afford to hire wrong. I helped identify the essential roles needed for the first phase - engineers who understood both traditional software development and the nuances of AI systems.

### AI-Ready Architecture

We designed the system architecture with AI/ML workloads in mind from the start. This meant considering factors like model serving, data pipelines, and the ability to iterate on ML models without disrupting the user experience.

## The Results

The strategic approach delivered significant outcomes:

### Successful Pre-Seed Round

In January 2024, Lexroom.ai closed a **€500k pre-seed funding round**. Investors were confident in both the technical approach and the team's ability to execute.

### Strong MVP Launch

We delivered a working MVP that demonstrated the core value proposition. The platform successfully helped legal professionals accelerate their research workflows.

### Foundation for Growth

Beyond the immediate deliverables, we established the technical and organizational foundations for the next phase of growth. The team is well-positioned to scale as the company expands.

Commit message:

Switch default language to Italian and add language switcher to navbar
- Change default language from English to Italian
- Italian pages now at root (/), English pages at /en/
- Add language switcher to navbar (before CTA button) and mobile menu
- Update all navigation links with correct paths
- Update case study card links for new URL structure
- Add id="challenges" for anchor navigation
- Replace inline SVG logos with actual logo images
- Update hreflang x-default to point to Italian

src/content/case-studies/en/lexroom.md, after:

---
slug: lexroom
---

## The Company

Lexroom is a platform that uses artificial intelligence to revolutionize legal research. The system analyzes documents, finds relevant precedents, and generates precise answers in real-time for law firms and legal professionals.

## The Challenge

The startup had solid technical skills but lacked strategic focus. Developers were creating features without clear direction and risked wasting limited resources. The team wanted "someone to help us figure out what to really focus on."

## Our Approach

I introduced a series of structural changes to give the team direction:

### Methodology and Process

- **Structured Kanban methodology** with weekly backlog refinement
- **Prioritization based on business impact vs technical effort**
- **Clear sprints** with measurable objectives

### Strategic Decisions

Strategic decision to postpone backend refactoring to focus on customer-requested features. This allowed the team to maintain focus on what generated immediate value.

### Team Building

Recruited developers and product designers as freelancers from my network to accelerate development without burdening the structure.

## The Results

The partnership produced extraordinary results:

### Funding Growth

From **€500K pre-seed** to **€16M seed round** in less than 2 years. Growth that demonstrates the solidity of the technical foundations and the product.

### Team Scaling

The team grew from **3 to 15 people**, maintaining quality and company culture.

### Operational Autonomy

After 6 months, the team achieved **complete operational autonomy**, a sign of well-structured processes and effective knowledge transfer.
